CLI Support for repository actions (#1987)
scm-manager/scm-manager: docs/en/development/cli-guideline.md

# CLI Guidelines

## Resource centered api
Every new command group starts with the resource name like `repo`.
Commands should be defined as singular. For repository commands it is `repo` and **not** `repos`.
You may set aliases to make your command more convenient to use.

```java
@CommandLine.Command(name = "repo")
```

## Subcommands
Subcommands are action centered and can look like `scm repo create x/y`. 

The RepositoryCreateCommand is a subcommand of RepositoryCommand and must be explicitly annotated.
```java
@ParentCommand(value = RepositoryCommand.class)
```

## Parameters and options
Every required field for my command must be a parameter. All other fields have to be options.

`scm repo create git namespace/name --init --description="test"`

> The repository `type` and `namespace/name` must be set, so these are annotated as parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repository `type` and `namespace/name` must be set, so they must be annotated as parameters. 
```

> The other fields like `init` and `description` are optional and are therefore options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other fields like `init` and `description` are optional and are therefore annotated as options.
```

```java
  @CommandLine.Parameters
  private String type;
  @CommandLine.Parameters
  private String repository;
  @CommandLine.Option(names = "--description")
  private String description;
  @CommandLine.Option(names = "--contact")
  private String contact;
  @CommandLine.Option(names = "--init")
  private boolean init;
```

## Templating

> Commands which returns large texts or much content should allow templating. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commands which return large texts or much content should allow templating. 
```

> This can be achieved by using the TemplateRenderer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be achieved by using the TemplateRenderer.
```

> If you inject the TemplateRenderer you must annotate it as Mixin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you inject the TemplateRenderer you must annotate it as a Mixin:
```

```java
  @CommandLine.Mixin
  private final TemplateRenderer templateRenderer;
```

### Table

> Besides, "loose" templates you can use a table-like template to render your output. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides "loose" templates, you can use a table-like template to render your output. 
```

```

#### Result
```shell
    NAME                   TYPE URL 
    scmadmin/nice_repo     git  http://localhost:8081/scm/repo/scmadmin/nice_repo    
```

### Key/Value Table
To create a two column (key-value-style) table you can use the `addKeyValueRow()` method.

```java
    Table table = createTable();
    RepositoryCommandDto dto = mapper.map(repository);
    table.addLabelValueRow("repoNamespace", dto.getNamespace());
    table.addLabelValueRow("repoName", dto.getName());
    table.addLabelValueRow("repoType", dto.getType());
    table.addLabelValueRow("repoContact", dto.getContact());
    table.addLabelValueRow("repoUrl", dto.getUrl());
    table.addLabelValueRow("repoDescription", dto.getDescription());
    renderToStdout(DETAILS_TABLE_TEMPLATE, ImmutableMap.of("rows", table, "repo", dto));
```

#### Result

```shell
Namespace: scmadmin                                        
Name     : testrepo                                        
Type     : git     
```

## I18n
The CLI client commands should support multiple languages. 
This can be done by using translation keys in the related resource bundles. 

> By default, we support english and german translations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, we support English and German translations.
```

### Example
```java
  static final String DEFAULT_TEMPLATE = String.join("\n",
    "{{repo.namespace}}/{{repo.name}}",
    "{{i18n.repoDescription}}: {{repo.description}}",
    "{{i18n.repoType}}: {{repo.type}}",
    "{{i18n.repoContact}}: {{repo.contact}}"
  );
```

The variables starting with `i18n` are translations from the resource bundles. 
The fields starting with `repo` are context related model data from the repository we are currently accessing.

## Error handling
There are different options on how to handle errors. 
You can use the TemplateRender and print the errors or exception messages to stderr channel.

> But you also can you throw the exception directly inside your execution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you also can throw an exception directly inside your execution. 
```

These exceptions will be handled by the CliExceptionHandler and will be printed to the stderr channel based on a specific template.

## Validation
The CLI commands support Java bean validation. 
If you want to use this validation you have to inject the CommandValidator and call `validator.validate()` in the first line of the command execution.
Then you can simply annotate your fields with validation annotations.

### Example
```java
  @Email
  @CommandLine.Option(names = {"--contact", "-c"})
  private String contact;
```

> ```java
>   @Inject
> public MyCommand(CommandValidator validator) {
>   this.validator = validator;
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
  @Inject
  public MyCommand(CommandValidator validator) {
    this.validator = validator;
  }
```

> @Override
> public void run() {
>   validator.validate();
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@Override
public void run() {
  validator.validate();
  ...
}
```
```
